- [Instructor] When working with
the Java collections framework, several collections
and their methods rely heavily upon comparing objects.
Just looking at the collection interface,
we'll find a few of these methods.
They're pretty easy to spot because they accept
an object or a collection of objects as their argument.
They use this argument to perform an operation
like removing an element or checking
for its presence in the collection.
To perform these operations, they must identify
the matching object within the collection
they're invoked upon so the method relies
upon a test that compares the provided argument
against the elements in the collection
to find the matching object.
In Java, there are two main ways to compare objects.
One is identity-based and the other is value-based.
When comparing objects by identity,
we check to see if two objects have references
to the same object in memory.
When you use Java's equality operator,
this is the type of check that occurs.
Comparing objects by value is a test
of whether two objects are logically equivalent.
It relies upon their field values,
instead of their memory addresses
to perform this comparison.
In Java, we override the equals method
on an object to establish the logic for this comparison.
A quick way to learn these two concepts
is to think about two people who have the same car.
Now, that's just how we phrase it.
They really don't have the same car,
but they have two cars with the same make and model.
That is a comparison based on characteristics,
or values of the car and it's the type
of comparison necessary for collection methods,
like remove, to function properly.
On the other hand, if we referred to two people sharing
a single car, that is an identity based comparison.
It's normally not what we want
when working with collections.
These comparison concepts come into play
when collection elements must be compared
against each other and there's some other factors
in Java we have to take into consideration.
We're going to unpack those in our next lesson
with a few code examples.